---
layout: post
title: realloc
date: 2014-09-25 10:00:00
---

void* realloc (void* ptr, size_t size);
Reallocate memory block
Changes the size of the memory block pointed to by ptr.
The function may move the memory block to a new location (whose address is returned by the function).
The content of the memory block is preserved up to the lesser of the new and old sizes, even if the block is moved to a new location. If the new size is larger, the value of the newly allocated portion is indeterminate.
In case that ptr is a null pointer, the function behaves like malloc, assigning a new block of size bytes and returning a pointer to its beginning.

Note：<br/>
C99/C11
If size is zero, the return value depends on the particular library implementation: it may either be a null pointer or some other location that shall not be dereferenced.

Parameters
ptr
Pointer to a memory block previously allocated with malloc, calloc or realloc.
Alternatively, this can be a null pointer, in which case a new block is allocated (as if malloc was called).

size
New size for the memory block, in bytes.
size_t is an unsigned integral type.

Return Value
A null-pointer indicates that the function failed to allocate storage, and thus the block pointed by ptr was not modified.


{% highlight Objective-C %}
/* realloc example: rememb-o-matic */
#include <stdio.h>      /* printf, scanf, puts */
#include <stdlib.h>     /* realloc, free, exit, NULL */

int main ()
{
  int input,n;
  int count = 0;
  int* numbers = NULL;
  int* more_numbers = NULL;

  do {
     printf ("Enter an integer value (0 to end): ");
     scanf ("%d", &input);
     count++;

     more_numbers = (int*) realloc (numbers, count * sizeof(int));

     if (more_numbers!=NULL) {
       numbers=more_numbers;
       numbers[count-1]=input;
     }
     else {
       free (numbers);
       puts ("Error (re)allocating memory");
       exit (1);
     }
  } while (input!=0);

  printf ("Numbers entered: ");
  for (n=0;n<count;n++) printf ("%d ",numbers[n]);
  free (numbers);

  return 0;
}
{% endhighlight %}